---
title: "My Notes: Learning, Git"
date: 2020-05-23
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
# Git-O-logy

## Git Commit
A snapshot of the files in your project. Basically, it does not copy all the
files but only the diff between current and previous versions. The other thing
about git is it maintains a history of commits so we can roll back to the
previous versions. Switching between commits is easy and fast


## Branching in Git
Git branches has no memory overhead.
> *branch early, and branch often*
>   *-git mantra*

<!--more-->

We can think branches as pointers to the commits. The git branch will create a
pointer on the branch we already were.
```bash
git branch new_feature
```
```
        commit0 --> commit1
                    |
                    *master
                    new_feature
```

Let's checkout the new_feature branch, add some work and commit

`git checkout new_feature; git commit` OR `git checkout -b new_feature`

```
        commit0 --> commit1 --> commit2
                    |           |
                    master      *new_feature
```

## Merge & Rebasing
Git merge and rebase are two ways of adding work between branches. Merge
preserves history while rebase provides a more linear view of view of the commit
tree


## Head
Head is a pointer that is pointing to the most recent commit. Detaching Head is
common message received it happens when you checkout a commit instead of branch.

If you are on master branch than Head will point to master and master inturn
will point to the commit.
```
        HEAD --> master --> commit
```
After checking out the commit the head will directly point to the commit and
we are in detached mode.

## Moving between commits
Other than using hash to move between commits. Another convinent way of moving
up the the commit tree is using reletive refs.
`git checkout HEAD^`  or `git checkout HEAD~1` will move one branch above head.
`git checkout HEAD~2` will move two branches up in the commit tree.

## Undo changes
There are two main ways to go back on changes
- `git reset`  :  Move back on in the commit tree
- `git revert` : Will add a new commit with reverting the exact changes that
were made added on the commit
